---
title: "Using EGIT with Github"
permalink: /node/5
language: en
tags:
  - git
  - egit
  - github
  - eclipse
  - php
modified: 2010-12-25T20:33:45Z
---

Recently a lot of the projects I am using has been moving to github.org. I am using Eclipse for development, and that worked flawlessly with Subversion. However, there were some caveats getting the same integration working with git via Egit.

This is what I needed to do in Eclipse 3.5.2 with the Eclipse EGit Feature (Incubation) at version 0.6.0 on Ubuntu 9.10 when doing php-programming.

This guide assumes you have already setup ssh-keys correctly at github.org and you already installed Eclipse.

I tried using the [unofficial guide: Using the EGit Eclipse Plugin with GitHub](http://github.com/guides/using-the-egit-eclipse-plugin-with-github), but it did not work right out of the box, so here is what I did.

**Install EGIT**

First I installed Egit from Eclipse following the second section from [the guide: Git with Eclipse (EGit)](http://www.vogella.de/articles/EGit/article.html) by Lars Vogel. That worked well.

**Getting a project from github.org into the Eclipse workspace**

Now I just needed to get a project into Eclipse, and here comes the strange parts.

1\) Click File -> Import and choose GIT -> Git Repository

2\) Put in the uri for the GIT-repository. Make sure to choose the protocol git+ssh

3\) Click Next

For some reason the import is not done correctly, so you have to take some additional steps. The git-project has been cloned to your filesystem, but it is not visible on the Eclipse workbench.

4\) File -> New and choose PHP Project

5\) Choose the same directory for the new project as the directory you chose to clone the git-project to

Now the git-project will be visible on the Eclipse workspace. However, it is not awere of it's gitness, so continue:

6\) Rightclick on the project on the Eclipse workspace. Choose Team -> Share project and choose Git. Mark the git-repository and click Finish.

Now you should be able to use the project from github.org in Eclipse.
