---
title: "Janitor in the issue queue"
permalink: /node/355
language: en
tags:
  - drupal
  - planet drupal
last_modified_at: 2012-10-29T23:38:24Z
---

For completely selfish reasons, I have helped clean up the issue queue for a couple of projects. I say selfish because, I figured if I could reduce the number of bugs (read: distractions) from the developers of the modules, then maybe they would pay attention to my issue quicker.

Therefore I have been cleaning up in the issue queue for [entityreference](https://drupal.org/project/issues/entityreference?categories=All), [colorbox](https://drupal.org/project/issues/colorbox?categories=All) and [media gallery](https://drupal.org/project/issues/media_gallery?categories=All) and to a lesser extent for some other projects. The issue queue often grows out of control, if the developers are too busy.

That is where most Drupal users can lend a hand. Here are some of the things, that I do, when digging into the issue queue.

**Getting rid of those stale, old issues.** First I arrange the issue queue by date and takes the oldest issues first. Then I start to see whether I can get some of those issues closed. Either I set the status to postphoned (the maintainer needs more info) and asks whether this issue has been resolved.

**Getting bugs confirmed in newer versions.** Then I arrange the issue queue by version number, and I dig into all those issues that are open for older versions. I ask whether the creator of the issue has tried with the latest development version of the project. I set the status to postphoned (the maintainer needs more info).

**Answering support questions.** Then I try to answer the questions in the issue queue, that I know the answer to.

By now, there is already progress.

**Close issues for inactivity.** Then I wait for **14 days** and I come back. I choose all the postphoned (maintainer needs more info), and if nobody answered within that period, I set the issue to closed (won't fix) by reason of inactivity.

Doing that work, I hope, make the life easier for the module maintainers, so they have more time to help me with my issues :)

Some work could be automated
----------------------------

Some of this work could be automated a bit. There is already the automated approach, that a fixed issue will be set to Closed (fixed) after 14 days. But a lot of the questions in the issue queue are questions that nobody remembers. Here is my proposal:

**Issues on old versions should be reprompted.** The issue tracker could create a new comment in an issue, if a new version of a project is published, and there is still issues on an old project. The comment could simply be: "Is this still an issue in the new version of this module". If nobody updates the version number for that issue within a given period of time, the issue is closed.

**Open issues with no activity.** If issues are open let us say half a year, a new comment could be made: "Is this still an issue for you". If nobody replies, the issue can be closed automatically.

That way the issue queues could be a little easier to manage.

Start digging into the issue queues
-----------------------------------

So start digging into the issue queue of your choice. Actually, you will end up learning something along the way. And what is your opinion about the automated issue queue?
