---
title: "Improving css by using SASS and compass"
permalink: /node/367
language: en
tags:
  - panels
  - sass
  - compass
  - drupal
  - planet drupal
last_modified_at: 2013-09-28T09:07:06Z
---

On vih.dk I had a layout which is several years old, and it is mainly suited for viewing on a desktop. I wanted to start the transition to making the layout mobile.

To make the transition easier, I wanted to start using a preprocessor. I [successfully used LESS](https://github.com/soc-odder/rose-theme) on [odder2014.dk](http://odder2014.dk) and was very satisfied, but for this transition I eventually wanted to be able to use the power of compass. Therefore, I chose SASS for this project. I've also recently introduced [navbar](http://drupal.org/project/navbar) and [panopoly](http://drupal.org/project/panopoly) features to the site, and since [radix](http://drupal.org/project/radix) also use compass and sass this seemed as a good bet.

### Rewrite existing css to sass

SASS and compass are local development tools, which you do not necessarily need on the server. There is a lot of ressources on the internet on how to install and use the languages. I've just followed them.

Then on [my project](http://github.com/vih/sport-theme), I started by adding a new branch, so I would not destroy any of the current work. Basically, I created a new folder called _scss_ and copied my existing css-files to that. Now I made sure that sass watched the folder and automatically compiled the css to the css folder. Because css is also valid SASS, it worked automatically.

`sass --watch`

Then I started reorganising my css, and used the nested properties of SASS, so I got at good structure on my existing css. It took about an hour and you can see the difference [before](https://github.com/vih/sport-theme/tree/6307dfe129c6d0f74988bbaf0f5b7a184612ed96/css) and [after](https://github.com/vih/sport-theme/commit/491d95c2902c6ce6821c561b4eb8845f6e255c5a).

### Enter compass to introduce CSS3 features to the existing theme

To make it easier to switch to a more mobile friendly layout, I wanted to switch from the old method of achieving rounded corners using images to the new CSS3 features for generating the same effect using pure css. Compass has a lot of really nice features, which makes this a whole lot easier called @mixins.

E.g. to generate the highligted box in the top of the page using old style css, I used the following code:


```
#highlighted { 
  width: 469px; 
  height: 85px; 
  background: url(../images/layout/tel-base.png) no-repeat 0 0; 
  margin: -100px 0 0 623px; 
  float: left; 
  display: inline; 
  font-size: 1em; 
  line-height: 1.4; 
  position: relative; 
} 
#highlighted .region-highlighted { 
  padding: 10px 20px 20px 42px; 
} 
#highlighted h2 { 
  margin-top: 0; 
  margin-bottom: 0; 
  font-weight: bold; 
}
```

After rewriting this part to using compass, I am no longer using an image, but using the @border-bottom-radius() and @box-shaddow()-mixins I was able to ditch the background image, and only use css for this effect. This makes it much easier to switch e.g. branding colors or whatever, I want to change.

```
#highlighted { 
  display: inline; 
  font-size: 1em; 
  line-height: 1.4; 
  background: white; 
  border-left: 5px solid $branding-color; 
  border-bottom: 5px solid $branding-color; 
  border-right: 5px solid $branding-color; 
  @include border-bottom-radius(10px); 
  @include box-shadow(black 5px 5px 5px); 
  width: 469px; 
  margin-top: -110px; 
  float: right; 
  .region-highlighted { 
    padding: 10px 10px 10px 20px; 
  } 
  h2 { 
    margin-top: 0; 
    margin-bottom: 0; 
    font-weight: bold; 
  } 
}
```

So the entire css has been rewritten to compass and next step will be to introduce breakpoint for creating the mobile friendly layout. You can see the [entire code on github.com](http://github.com/vih/sport-theme).

### Using panels style plugins for commen elements

I had some styles which were duplicated several times to make a grey background with rounded corners on some elements on the page. These, I also ditched and created some panels style plugins, so I only needed to write the code once, and the content editors could change the style for the panel panes themselves from the panels ui.

There is still a lot of room for improvement, and comments are more than welcome. I am still learning.
