---
title: "Samsung Galaxy IIs"
permalink: /node/370
language: en
tags:
  - phone
  - cyangenmod
last_modified_at: 2014-01-01T12:08:54Z
---

I was growing tired of my Samsung Galaxy sII which came with Android 2.3 being too slow after applying all upgrades to the Android system to reach 4.1. Therefore I wanted to root the phone and flash a new ROM on it.

**No need to root your phone first**

First, I thought I had to root the phone before starting. That was a big mistake, and I ended up paying for oneclickroot.com. Do not do that.

**Just use cyanogenmod**

It was really easy when just using [cyanogenmod](http://www.cyanogenmod.org/). Everything is explained on their website, and you do not need to do anything. You probably want to backup your phone first, though :) I ended up with a very pleasant system. Only caveats to the system before is:

**Facebook synchro with contacts not working.** Apparently, currently there is a limitation in the FB app, so your Facebook contacts cannot be synced with your contacts. That is not a big deal for me, and that will probably be fixed later on.

**Cannot get a GPS-fix anymore.** After the update I cannot get a GPS-fix anymore. I suspect this will be fixed in later versions and this is probably just an issue on the Galaxy sII - and I am currently looking for a solution to fixing this, as this is a big deal for me.

If you are getting tired of your current Android system, you should give cyanogenmod a go :)

## Update: Now I want a new phone!

I have grown tired of the phone entirely, and switched to a Samsung Note 3 and later to a Samsung Note 9.

[Køb en ny mobil](https://www.partner-ads.com/dk/klikbanner.php?partnerid=28187&bannerid=45923){: .btn .btn--large .btn--info rel="sponsored nofollow noopener" }
